hello everyone in this week's After
Effects scripting tutorial I'm gonna be
showing you how to recreate shape layers
using a script I'll be using a few
different techniques to go through and
add custom contents with things like
rounded corners and adding custom shapes
with the stroke and a fill and basically
reverse engineering these will allow you
to create any kind of shape layer you
want from scratch is just a few lines of
code from a script after you learn these
techniques you'll be able to recreate
pretty much any shape layer you want and
learn how to basically reverse-engineer
any of these properties that we've
applied so I'm going to get started by
opening a new JavaScript file and we're
just going to start by looking at our
layer inside of After Effects we're
gonna start with this hexagon shaped
layer we basically have a couple things
it's a standard shaped layer and it has
a hexagon inside of the contents with
the poly star path which refers to how
many sides everything has basically so
we can change what kind of shape it is
and this also contains information like
the position rotation and radius so if
any of these values are changed and you
want to make them custom when we're
creating this we can basically change
any of the points position or any of
these values we want so the first thing
I'm going to do is go ahead and create a
few lines of code to represent standard
variables inside of After Effects we're
going to need one for the project and
one for the composition so for the
project we're going to say that's going
to be equal to AB dot projects and then
a composition we're going to assume
there's a composition open so we'll say
our project and the active item so
before we run the script we want to make
sure we have a comp selected and active
you also have the option of saying after
this well what if it's not active if
comp is equal to null
basically if this variable our active
item ends up being null that means
there's nothing selected if that's the
case let's create a new comp so I'm
going to say comp equals our project
items we're gonna add a comp and now's a
good time to break open the scripting
guide
we'll just type in addcom and we need a
couple of things here need the name so
we'll just call this test comm the width
the height the pixel aspect ratio the
duration and the frame rate so basically
when you run the script the first time
it's going to check if there's something
active if there's a composition active
if there isn't if it's no if there's
nothing really in that variable we're
gonna add a composition ourselves and
now we can go ahead and grab our comp
and say open in viewer and this will
basically ensure that we have a
composition ready to add our shape layer
into so now if I go back into the
scripting guide and type in add shape we
can use this to add our shape layer so
I'll grab my composition and I'll say
add or I'll say comp dot layers that add
shape and there's actually no argument
required because there's a lot of custom
things we can do with this shape we
basically need to go in and add our own
properties inside of this now empty
shape layer we also want to give this a
variable so I'll just say shape layer is
equal to comp dot layers to add shape we
can also give it a name so the shape
layer name and referring back to our
project here we have just a hexagon so
we're gonna be recreating a hexagon as a
first shape layer so what we need to do
now is learn how we can sort of look
into this project here in reverse
engineer it so what I'm gonna do is open
up a new JavaScript file again and I'm
gonna make sure it's linked to
after-effects and now the same thing I'm
gonna make a variable for the project
and one for the composition and then to
start reverse engineering we need to get
our hexagon layer as well so it's layer
number three so we're going to say layer
equals comm player three and just to
make sure we're getting the right layer
here we're going to alert the layer name
and you can see we're getting hexagons
layer one so now we can go ahead and go
deeper into the hexagons layer into the
contents and reverse engineer
so now I'm going to go ahead and test
this original script to see what our
empty shape layer looks like I'm going
to run it and you can see we have our
hexagon layer here if I make sure I have
a no comp selected and I run it you can
see it's going to open a new comp and
create our hexagon shape layer which is
currently empty it does have the
contents but if we look at our other one
it doesn't have this hexagon or the poly
star path and these are the properties
we need to engineer essentially now so
let's go ahead and see how we can do
this back on our other one since we have
a layer variable we can now go in and
check out what the values and properties
are of our layer so we're talking about
our hexagon layer here and we want to
first to check out the contents so what
I'm about to explain is essentially the
way I reverse engineer all this stuff if
I want to learn how to add a hexagon or
I want to learn how to add a poly star
path property this is how you do it you
first want to grab your layer or
whatever object you want to grab the
property for now we're gonna go level by
level down until we get all the
properties we want so what I'm gonna do
instead of alerting it is I'm gonna say
write line so we can see in the
JavaScript console and copy and paste it
if we need so I'm gonna say the layer
dot property and the first property we
want to go down into is our contents so
I'll type in contents and I'm just gonna
go ahead and run this and see what it
gives me you can see we get an object
property group this is telling us that
something is indeed there and we can
even say dot name and we should get
contents yep we're getting contents
because that's obviously the contents
property now we need to actually get
what's called the match name if you're
not familiar the match name is sort of
the built-in after-effects language
version of what anything is when you're
applying effects or fonts to things with
scripts and after-effects you need to
use the match names that way I
essentially recognizes it and applies it
properly so if we wanted to say add
these contents add another contents
property we couldn't say dot add
contents we need to actually know what
the match name is not the regular name
so if I run this you can see we get
something called a
Doby root vectors a group so that's
actually what the contents group is
really called if we ever wanted to do
something with it we need to refer to
this not the name that we see as a user
but the contents group already exists so
we need to continue diving deeper to get
the next properties and you can see the
hexagon which we need to recreate is the
actual next property so we can do now is
move on from contents and grab the next
property because I'm not sure what the
property might be called it's obviously
called hexagon but there might be a
hidden property as well so let's grab
property one and grab the name so now
we're going down into the contents and
whatever the first property is one of
these I'm guessing let's get the name of
it so you can see we're getting hexagons
as I predicted well let's go ahead and
get the match name for that so we can
recreate it it looks like it's just
called Adobe vector group which is
accurate because this is essentially
just a group holding a bunch of stroke
and path information which creates the
shape so to recreate it the first thing
we're going to need is to add an Adobe
vector group and we need to name it
hexagon so what I'm going to do is go
back into my main script here where I'm
recreating it and with our shape layer
selected I'm going to create a new
variable called hexagon group this is
going to be representative of this group
right here with our hexagon in it and
then I'm going to say this is equal to
our shape layer and we're going to go
into the property contents and again
this exists already and what we want to
do is add that Adobe vector group so I'm
going to copy and paste this match name
and for the contents I'm gonna add a
property called Adobe vector group so
we're gonna basically take our shape
layer go down to the contents and add
something called an Adobe vector group
it's not going to be called hexagon yet
so to actually show this we can run it
and if we scroll down here to contents
we now have a group with transform and
material options within it but we need
to actually change the name of this to
be hexagon within our script and also so
I don't have to undo each of these a
thousand times over and over I'm going
to add
an app beacon undo group and of course
I'm going to add an app dot end undo
group we should be creating a separate
function to run all this but we're fine
in this case so now we have our hexagon
group added what we can do to simply
change the name is take the variable
hexagon group and I'm gonna say the name
is equal to hexagon and now if we go
back we now need to get a poly star path
1 a stroke 1 and a fill 1 and a rounded
corners property on this shape layer how
are we gonna do that well we're gonna
dive back in to our other script and
keep going levels deep so we know
property 1 now is called hexagon so we
don't have to refer to it as property 1
so we don't get confused as we go deeper
and deeper into the layer stack here so
now we're gonna be in contents and
hexagons let's see what the next
property down is calls so I'm gonna grab
property 1 after that and grab the name
and I'll go ahead and run this so now
we're getting the name blend mode and I
don't actually see anything called blend
mode so what that means is it's a hidden
property and it's actually one we don't
want so instead let's go to the next
number and try it property to property 2
gives us contents again and there's not
really any contents inside of here I can
see if we try 3 we're gonna get
transform which looks like is this
property right here if we try 4 we're
gonna get material options which are
also another hidden thing that involve
3d layers if we try 5 it looks like it's
out of range and there's no more
properties so out of all of these which
of the ones do we think we need to go
into to get more properties like the
fill and stroke well the transform is
probably not going to have that and the
blending mode not so let's go into the
contents that was property - yes so
let's get the mash name and it's just
called Adobe vector groups as well so
I'm gonna replace 2 here with contents
again and I'm just gonna keep diving in
here and until I see something that I
recognize because I need to see either
poly star path or stroke or fill so I'm
going to go down at another level into
the next contents and now I'm getting
poly star path
so what this is basically saying is that
we added this first hexagon group but
within the hexagon group there's sort of
another hidden group called contents
which is containing poly star path and
all of this so I don't think when we
recreate it we need to add this other
contents but we do need to reference it
so to get the poly star path let's get
the match name instead of the regular
name so we can add it like we did before
and that name is Adobe vector shape -
star now I'm gonna go on to the next
couple properties you can see we have
stroke one stroke one which is property
two and fill one which is property three
so let's go ahead and grab those match
names too and then we should be off to
the races to add these so the mash name
for stroke is Adobe vector graphic -
stroke and I imagine Phil is very
similar
yes very much the same so now what we
can do is create a couple of variables
for each of these we need one to control
the poly star path the stroke and the
fill so I'll create one called
path group one called stroke group and
one called fill group and for each of
these I'm going to do something very
similar take my shape layer contents and
then we need to go a couple layers
deeper remember it goes contents and
then at this point it's called hexagon
and then after the hexagon group again
there's kind of like an invisible when
we discovered called contents again so
let's say dot property contents now
inside of these contents to add our poly
star path we're going to add a property
and the name for that was Adobe vector
shape star so we'll add that property
and close out the brackets then we'll do
the same thing for the stroke and fill
group only difference being this time we
need to add these match names rather
than the star alright so let's do a
quick test run and see how far we've
gone so now we actually have a star
appearing if we go down into our content
options we have our hexagon our poly
star path our stroke and our fill now
the final thing that's left to do after
we've done the basic reverse engineering
all the groups and things now we need to
do is adjust any of the values as we
wanted this is a star right now it
obviously needs to be a hexagon so the
next thing in the process is we need to
take our poly star path group and change
star to polygon and then to get a
hexagon of course we need six sides so
we need to change those two values and
then we should be good unless you want
to go and further and change things like
the color of the fill so what I can do
is after I have created in my path group
I'm going to grab path group which
references our poly star path one and
now we can go down into the poly star
path properties and just set the values
like we would with position or anything
normal and after-effects so I'll grab
path group and I'll grab the property
called type and I'm gonna set the value
to something and since it's a drop-down
we're going to set it to either one or
two in this case and we want it to be 2
so it's a polygon and then we also want
to change the number of points so I'm
going to duplicate this line change type
two points and change it from two I mean
since it's a hexagon we want six alright
so now let's finally test this out and
see if they're working alright go ahead
and run it and now we're accurately
getting our hexagon here it's got the
proper properties inside of it it's
turned into a six-sided polygon and any
other properties you wanted to go in and
fix you could simply go in and do things
like change the fill add expressions to
things and do whatever you want to
recreate it entirely but that's the
basic concept of how you can reverse
engineer anything by going down into the
properties itself and checking out what
the mash names are and exploring what
the different properties in their
relationship are but yeah that's going
to do it for this week's After Effects
description tutorial guys I hope you
enjoyed if you enjoyed the video make
sure to smash the thumbs up button and
to be notified of new videos coming out
every Monday and Thursday make sure to
hit the subscribe button and the bell
icon to be notified of when those come
but thanks again for watching guys and
we'll see you in the next one